    WHAT IS A BLACK HOLE ? 
   
    A black hole is a place in space where gravity pulls so much that even light can not get out. A black hole does not have a surface, like a planet or star. Matter has squeezed into a tiny space.Therefore, the gravity is so strong.This can occur when star is dying.
    
    Albert Einstein first predicted black holes 1916 with his general theory of relativity. The term "black hole " was coined in 1967 by American astronomer Jhon Wheeler, and the first one was discovered in 1971.

    BLack hole can not be noticed because no light can get out. They are invisible. Space telescopes with special tools can help to find black hole. Stars that are very close to black holes act diffirently than other stars can be seen with the special tools.
  
    HOW BİG ARE BLACK HOLES ?

    Black hole could be big or small. It is thought to the fact that the smallest black holes are as small as just one atom by scientists.Although these black holes are very tiny, they have the mass of a large mountain.Mass is the amount of matter, or "stuff," in an object.
  
    Stellar is another kind of black hole.Stellar black holes are small but they are quite deadly. Its mass can be more than 20 times mass of sun. This leads to a crazy amount of gravitational force pulling on objects around it. Black holes consume the dust and gas from the galaxy around them, growing in size. There may be many, many stellar mass black holes in Earth's galaxy.Earth galaxy is called the Milky Way. 
    
    Supermassive black holes are the largest black holes. Moreover they have a radius similar to that of Earth's closest star. Masses of these black holes are more than 1 million suns together. Proof that every large galaxy contains a supermassive black holes at its center have been found by scientists. The supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy is called Sagittarius A. It has a mass equal to about 4 million suns and would fit inside a very large ball that could hold a few million Earths.

    HOW DO BLACK HOLES FORM?

    It is believed to the fact that the smallest black holes formed when the universe began. 
   
    When the center of a very big star falls in upon itself, or collapses; Stellar black holes are made. When this happens it causes a supernova. A supernova is an exploding star that blasts part of the star into space.It is thought to the fact that supermassive black holes were made at the same time as the galaxy they are in.

    WHY ARE BLACK HOLES BLACK?

    Nothing can escape a balck hole really.Not even light waves which are the fastest thing in the Universe can get out.This is what makes black holes black. Gravity is a force associated with massive objects. The more massive something is, the harder it tugs on objects around it.
    
    IF BLACK HOLES ARE "BLACK," HOW DO SCIENTISTS KNOW THEY ARE THERE?

    Strong gravity in black holes pulls all of the light into the middle of the black hole.Therefore a black hole can not be seen. However scientist can know how the storng gravity affects the stars and gas around the black holes. Scientists can study stars to find out if they are flying around, or orbiting, a black hole.High-energy light is made when a balck hole and a star are close together.This kind of light could not be noticed with human eyes.Accordingly, scientists use satellites and telescopes in space to see the high-energy light.

    COULD A BLACK HOLE DESTROY EARTH?

    Black holes do not go around in space eating stars, moons and planets.No black hole is close enough to solar system for Earth to do what. Thus, Earth will not fall into a black hole. Even if a black hole the same mass as the sun were to take the place of the sun, Earth still would not fall in. The black hole wouyld have the same gravity as the sun. Earth and the other planets would orbit the black hole as they orbit the sun now.The sun will never turn into a black hole. The sun is not a big enough star to make a black hole.


 

 
 
 
 
  
 































   












  
